Hello, I'm Mark Malone, iPhone and
Server Technologies Evangelist.
In this video you'll learn the
overall architecture and the
steps required to successfully
add in-app purchase to your app.
More than an overview,
this session is designed to highlight
the most critical steps and best
practices you'll use to ensure
a stress-free implementation.
So let's begin.
So here's our agenda,
what we'll cover today.
First,
a bit of overview and some architecture,
the development and production
preparation steps you'll need to take,
as well as some implementation details,
the things that you'll need
to do within your application,
perhaps on your server as well.
And then finally, we'll wrap it up with
some debugging techniques.
Throughout this presentation you'll see
these little stars next to the bullets.
The goal is that you've read
the documentation and this just
isn't going to reiterate the
things in the documentation,
but these little gold stars are
there to demarcate items where
folks have been confused or gotchas,
things that have tripped up people
as part of their implementation.
So keep mindful of these.
So, overview and architecture.
Let's get into some details.
At the top level,
In-App Purchas is there to allow you,
within your application,
to leverage the App Store Catalog
and Billing system.
You're able to sell access to built-in
features or perhaps remote content.
You're able to provide
localized price information as
well as product descriptions.
And the App Store collects
the payment for you,
and you, in turn,
unlock the features within your app.
And implementing in-app purchase is easy.
There's lots of functionality
for very little code.
You get localized pricing and
product detail information.
There's no credit card processing that
you need to build into your application.
The App Store manages the
checkout with familiar screens
that your customers are used to.
And of course, there is no server
required as part of this.
And there's plenty of great
implementations of in-app purchase
already up on the App Store.
All sorts of things: buying content,
driving directions, game levels,
you name it.
There's a way to use in-app purchase in
order to add value to your application.
So let's look at the architecture.
There's four moving parts
that I'm going to talk about.
Four of the main moving parts.
First and foremost,
there's your application.
All that's required is
iPhone OS 3.0 or better,
an iPod Touch, or an iPhone,
as well as a cellular plan or
Wi-Fi connection so that we can talk to
the back-end network in the App Store.
On the App Store side, well,
you're going to access the
App Store via the Store Kit frameworks.
We provide localized product
metadata descriptions and pricing,
collect the payments,
and we also provide transaction recovery
for installation of an application on
a new device for one of your customers
and allowing you to recover the
transactions they've already paid for.
There's also an optional server
that you could provide where you
could deliver purchase content.
You can also validate the
purchase receipts associated
with the purchase transactions.
And a cloud service that we provide
through iTunes for receipt validation.
Now keep in mind that both
of these parts are optional.
You don't need to validate the receipts.
And delivering content that's sitting
on a server is purely a design
consideration for your application.
So let's look at the
in-app purchase workflow.
The first step that you're going to want
to implement is requesting product IDs.
These product IDs are the potential
products you may sell within your
application using in-app purchase.
Now you might request those
product IDs from your server
using a web service call,
bring them back into your application,
or you might load them from
your application bundle itself,
or maybe you have them as a set of
constants within your application.
Step one is that you want to
get them into your application.
Step two is you're going to
take that set of potential
product IDs and validate them.
You're going to validate them
using the Store Kit framework
to talk to the App Store itself.
So you pass those product
IDs off to the App Store.
The App Store is going to pass
you back what is considered
a valid set of product IDs.
Then within your application
you're going to present the
display of items for your users,
and then your user is going to
select an item for purchase,
and you're going to pass that product,
the one they selected,
back to the App Store using the
Store Kit framework to request
payment for that particular product.
As a result of the user walking
through a series of dialogues,
you will get passed back a receipt
associated with a successful transaction.
Now if you're implementing
purchase validation,
you'll want to pass that
receipt back up to your server,
and then you'll call our iTunes URL,
passing that receipt for validation.
We'll look up that transaction
in our back-end database,
and then pass you back the result.
We'll let you know if that
was a successful transaction,
a verified transaction.
And then of course you'll pass
that back to your application for
unlocking the purchase for your user.
It's that simple.
So let's get into some
nitty-gritty details.
Preparation and implementation.
These are the steps that you're
going to perform in order
to get everything set up.
And then finally,
what you're going to do within
your application to make sure that
you adopt the right techniques.
So there's four moving parts that
I'm going to talk about here as part
of preparation and implementation.
There's the program portal,
a place you're used to interacting
with when you go and register
IDs or request certificates.
There's iTunes Connect,
where you've recently uploaded
your applications or provided
metadata for your applications.
There's some things that you need to do,
obviously, within your application,
the implementation of Store Kit APIs.
And then finally,
if you're doing purchase validation,
then you're going to take advantage of
a couple of steps on the server as well.
So let's take a look at each
of these in some detail.
On the development preparation side,
you're going to start at the
Developer Program Portal.
And the first step there is you need to
enable your App ID for in-app purchase.
This is required in order for you
to go into iTunes Connect at a later
step and enter the products associated
with your application for sale.
So do this first.
Until you associate an
App ID with in-app purchase,
none of the iTunes Connect features
are going to be turned on for you.
Another thing to keep in mind is
that no wildcards are allowed for app
IDs associated with in-app purchase,
or push notification for that matter.
So make sure that you have a
non-wildcarded app ID associated
with in-app purchase.
If you've got an existing
application and you're just merely
updating it to add in-app purchase,
it's as easy as creating a new app ID,
the same as the previous one,
and just leaving out the wildcard.
From the store's perspective,
it'll look just like an update.
The user will be notified that
your new version is up there.
There won't be any issue with access
to the local documents directory,
anything like that.
It'll be just like an in-place update.
So here's the UI that you'll see once
you select the appropriate app ID.
And you'll see over on the right
hand side there's a configure button.
So tap that configure button.
And you'll see some details
associated with your app ID.
All that's required for enabling in-app
purchase is to check the checkbox saying
"Enable in-app purchase." A little green
light will go on and you're good to go.
And you're all done
in the Program Portal.
That's it.
That one step.
Next step,
let's go into iTunes Connect and
do a few things there.
So within the iTunes Connect,
we're going to first verify that you've
got appropriate contracts in place.
You're going to add your application.
You don't need to upload your binary yet,
but get some critical meta data
information in there first.
You're going to add your products.
And then finally you're going to
create a test user for testing in-app
purchase within your application.
So let's begin with
verifying your contracts.
Tap on the Contracts, Tax,
and Banking Information item
within iTunes Connect,
and it'll take you to a section
where you can manage the
contracts that you have in place.
Make sure that you've got a paid
applications contract in place in
the Your Contracts in Effect section
within this particular tab.
This is especially critical for folks
who have delivered free applications
on the App Store and have never sold
an application at a given price.
So make sure that you've got this step
taken out of the way in the beginning.
Now if you've already sold an
application within the App Store,
then you've got a contract in place.
However, there might be an amendment
waiting for your agreement there.
So if you're having an
issue adding your products,
associating them with an application,
then it might be that you have another
contract waiting for you to agree to.
So simply tap the Submit
button and move on.
You're good to go.
Next step is we're going
to add your application.
So click on the "Manage your
application" section in iTunes Connect.
Now, you don't have to load
your entire app altogether.
We don't request your binary is
submitted as part of the testing process
associated with in-app purchases.
We just require that you add a
certain amount of metadata so that
we can track the application and
associate the products with it.
Something to keep in mind is that
changes for apps that are already
on the store go live immediately.
So don't go into the description
of your application and start
advertising about the in-app
purchases that you've got coming,
since those will be presented
to your users right away,
and you might not have uploaded
the most recent version of your
application that even contains the
capabilities for in-app purchase.
Next step is adding your products.
So you're going to click on the
Manage your in-app purchases
section of iTunes Connect.
And you should see,
if everything went well,
a Manage In-App Purchases button
next to your application of choice.
So go ahead and tap that.
So to collect your product information,
we'll display a view that collects
things like the reference name,
a product ID type, price tier,
as well as cleared for sale.
One thing to keep in mind
as you're filling in this
information is that product
IDs are unique across applications.
Many folks use the reverse domain
name naming function or perhaps
a bundle identifier as a way of
creating a unique product name,
followed by the product itself.
And something to keep in mind is
that the type that you choose here
is very important because the type
that you choose for this particular
in-app purchase really drives a
lot of the behavior of whether
it's restored to a user's device,
how the user buys it perhaps
multiple times over time,
whether it's a subscription.
So let's talk a little
about these in detail.
The first type of product that you
might associate with your in-app
purchase is a non-consumable.
These are products that
are purchased once,
but available forever
within your application.
A good example is perhaps a game level.
A user would buy that once and
they would always have access to
that particular level in a game.
Another product type is a consumable.
Bullets is a good example
for a game as well,
where it's purchased each
time that they are consumed.
The user will use them up and then
they'll need to buy more in order to get
more bullets or whatever product it is
that you're selling that's consumable.
The third and final
type is a subscription.
A subscription is purchased each
time the subscription expires.
Keep in mind that you're in charge of the
dates associated with when a particular
item is no longer valid for a given
subscription that a user has purchased.
So that's the product types.
Another good thing to keep in mind is
that the "Cleared for Sale" checkbox
must be checked before you can test your
in-app purchases within your application.
And finally,
the Approve button you'll see next
to your application listing all
your products is there when it's
time to go and submit your app
and its products for approval.
Make sure that you press that
Approve button after you've
tested all your products within
your in-app purchase application.
And finally,
let's create a test user that you'll
use to test your implementation.
Back into iTunes Connect.
Click on the Manage
User item within the menu.
And it'll take you to an area where
you can add an iTunes Connect user as
well as an in-app purchase test user.
Click on that.
And you'll see that we collect the
same sort of information that you would
enter for your app ID for production.
However, we don't want you to enter
your production Apple ID here.
Make sure that this is a unique
Apple ID that you're creating
for testing in-app purchase.
You don't want to use the same one
that you would use for buying music,
for example, or movies in iTunes.
Don't enter that here.
Make up something completely different.
You're going to want to make up one
for each country that you wish to test,
since the ID that you enter is going
to be associated with an individual
country that your product might be
for sale within for a specific store.
So use one for each one of the countries
that you want to sell your products in.
And we're done.
That's it in iTunes Connect.
Let's take a look at what we need
to do within your application now.
Within your application,
you're going to determine
the sellable products,
you're going to build
the product display,
request payment for the item that
the user selected to purchase,
you're going to perhaps
verify the purchase receipt,
remember the purchase,
and then finally restore previous
purchases that the user might
have purchased with previous
devices of your application.
So, as I said earlier in the beginning,
the workflow.
Whenever your application
launches the first time,
you're going to request
a set of product IDs,
either from your server or
from within the file system,
perhaps bundle of your application.
You're going to pull those sellable
products into your application.
Remember,
those are the potential products.
They aren't necessarily all of
the products that you can actually
sell within your application.
You're going to use Store Kit to
determine the sellable
subset of those products.
And by sellable,
I mean it's those products that have
been entered into iTunes Connect,
as well as those that have cleared
through the app review process.
Now, clearing app review is
not required for testing.
However, both of these steps have to
be complete for you to be able
to sell a product using the
Store Kit APIs within your application.
So how do you do it?
Well, first you need to take that set of
potential products that you've built up
and call init with product
identifiers passing in that set.
Finally,
you call start on your product's request.
By calling start,
You'll pack up those products and
send them to the App Store using
the Store Kit APIs.
And then as a result,
we'll look at the products you've
provided and return back the sellable
products back to your application.
It's that subset of products that
you can sell within your application.
Those products come back, all of them,
in the response object of the
didReceiveResponse method.
They're all returned,
however they're broken
into two separate arrays.
One,
a set of invalid product identifiers,
and then a set of valid
products in response.products.
You're going to want to use
response.products within your
application to build your display.
The invalid product identifiers
might be products that haven't
made it through app review,
or perhaps you didn't even
enter them into iTunes Connect.
You're also going to want to make
sure that you use the localized
product attributes for your display.
When you're building your
list of products for sale,
you want to use the localized title,
the localized description,
and the price that's provided as well.
We're doing that for you so that
the information that is displayed
is in the language of the particular
store that your customer is using
when they're buying your items.
So make sure that you use that.
That same language,
that same localized value,
is used as part of Store Kit dialogues
that are presented to a user as part of
their checkout process for buying items.
Next step,
after a user has selected the item,
you're going to request payment.
And again, of course,
it's back to the Store Kit APIs to
talk to the Store Kit.
You create a payment request,
you send it to the Store Kit.
And then we're going to
send you back the results.
The way you build your request is by
selecting the product ID associated
with the item the user has chosen to
purchase and adding it to the payment
queue via the Add Payment method.
Once you do this,
Store Kit is going to present
a series of payment request
dialogs to your customers.
The first one is going to request
the iTunes password of the
customer that's using the device.
Keep in mind that if
you're in testing mode,
this user ID that you see in the
dialog should be your in-app test user.
Make sure that this isn't
your production user.
If so,
if it's got your production name in here,
then all of the workflow is
going to break as part of your
processing of these transactions.
You want to make sure that
this has your in-app test user,
the same one that you created
within iTunes Connect at the
beginning of this process.
If you see the wrong user ID in here,
if it's perhaps your production user ID,
the way to clear it is in the
Settings section of the iPhone OS.
So go to the Settings section and
you'll see there's a Store item
down at the bottom of the settings.
Tap on that and you'll see the account
settings for in-app purchase as well as
any item that's purchased on the device.
You're going to want to press the
Sign Out button and then make sure that
there isn't any account information
that's entered here at the top.
Make sure it doesn't have
your test account information.
Make sure it doesn't have your
production account information.
And another key got you is make sure
that you don't enter any value here.
Don't enter your in-app test user here.
Just make sure that it's blank.
And then you're good to go forward.
The next dialog that's going to
be presented is a Confirm dialog.
As I mentioned,
the dialogs we present when we're talking
about product information displays
that localized product information.
So remember,
you want to build your display based on
that localized product values that we
return associated with your products.
Because this is where your
customers will see them.
You want to make sure that the product
name displayed here is the same thing
that they thought they were buying when
they selected it within your application.
The next dialog is the
previously purchased dialog.
Now this might not show up.
It's only displayed if a user has bought
this item before and it's a consumable
or it's a subscription type product.
From a transaction perspective
within your transaction queue,
this is going to look just
like an original purchase.
So if you're doing auditing
of your transactions,
this won't appear as a
different sort of transaction.
It's not a restored transaction.
It's just another successful buy.
So make sure you keep that in mind if
you're keeping track of transactions.
The next dialogue,
if the user's made it through
this process and everything
has been successful,
is the thank you dialogue.
And the user successfully
bought your item.
The thing to keep in mind
is testing environments are
different from production.
So all of these dialogues are
displayed to you when you're testing,
as well as when the user is
walking through the process of
buying your in-app purchase.
However, when you're testing,
you want to make sure that
you're in the sandbox.
And the way to do it is by looking at
each one of the dialogues and making
sure that you see the environment
sandbox within brackets keywords.
It's there within each one of these.
If you don't see this,
then there's going to be a
problem with part of the checkout
process that you're testing.
So make sure it's there.
So you've successfully requested payment.
As a result of requesting payment,
we're going to pass you
back a transaction receipt.
And you can use that transaction
receipt to verify the purchase.
And remember,
purchase verification is optional.
Not everybody is doing this.
It's not required,
but it is a nice to have.
The purchase transaction
contains a signed receipt.
And it looks like this.
This particular transaction,
my payment transaction,
has a field on it, Transaction Receipt.
What you need to do before you do
anything with it is Base64 encode it.
Base64 encode the receipt value.
And if you need a sample
on how to do that,
you can get it from Cocoa Dev.
They've got some great examples
on how to Base64 encode.
It's not one simple Cocoa method.
There's a fair number of things that
you need to do in order to do it.
So go to this website and
grab the source and do it.
Once you've encoded your
transaction receipt,
it's time to verify it and do
that by sending it to your server.
You don't want to encode and verify
the receipt right there on the device.
If you're worried about the transaction,
move it off to your server and
have the validation status passed
back to your application before you
finally go and unlock that purchase.
Once you feel comfortable
with the purchase,
the next step is you need to remember it.
Remember, you want to make sure that the
item that the user has purchased
is available between different
launches of the application.
So you need to remember it.
And there's a couple ways to do that.
First, and probably the most popular way,
is to use the NSUserDefaults class.
And it looks like this.
It's a very easy way to go and
write an array of information,
a dictionary of information,
out to the file system in a
standard location on iPhone.
It writes to the application
support directory.
And if you're looking for a sample
on how to use the NSUserDefaults,
then take a look at the
drill-down save sample.
It's got a great example of
providing user navigation,
drilling down within a
multi-list environment,
and then saving the depth of the user's
drill-down in the NSUserDefaults.
So it's there the next time the
user launches the application.
It's a great sample, and it's got a great
implementation of NSUserDefaults.
Another mechanism that's
popular is using the Keychain
APIs to go and remember this.
Remember, you can write all sorts of
things out to the Keychain.
Most people use it for secure ID,
secure URLs, passwords,
those kinds of things,
but you can also remember purchases,
remember the product ID associated
with the purchased item
in the Keychain as well.
As part of using the Keychain,
you'll notice that you get a
unique slice of the Keychain
for your particular application.
Something that's very nice, however,
is that that slice can be shared
across all the applications
that have the same bundle seed.
So if perhaps you want to
remember the purchases from one
application into the Keychain,
you can always use another application
to look at that same slice and see,
oh, within this other application
that you've developed,
these particular products
are purchased as well.
If you're looking for a sample
on how to use the Keychain,
how to read and write,
the generic Keychain sample is an
excellent example to take a look at.
It's got a Keychain wrapper class
that makes it very straightforward
to go and read and write from
the Keychain application.
Keep in mind that both of
these mechanisms are backed up.
And as user defaults,
the entire directory is backed up
as part of a user's backup process,
as is the keychain.
So these items that you've written
to either of these locations are
going to be remembered between
restores of a user's device.
Talking about restoring,
let's talk a little bit
about restoring purchases.
Subscription and non-consumable
items are required to be restored
across all the user's devices.
So if they bought it on one device,
you're required to restore it across all
the other devices for the same iTunes ID.
You need to provide custom UI in order to
give the user the capability to do this.
Don't launch the restore process
on every launch of the application.
Put a button perhaps in your settings
or perhaps in a utility section in
your application that clearly says,
"Restore previous purchases."
Users will get used to this.
They're used to downloading
applications to multiple devices,
and they'll look for the previously
purchased items in that application,
not see them, and they'll go hunting for
this type of mechanism.
Non-consumables will use the
Store Kit API in order to
provide the restoration services.
And you do it through calling
restoreCompletedTransactions
as part of the payment queue.
Now remember, as part of calling
this particular method,
customer sign-in is going to be required.
So again,
make sure that you're not requesting
transactions to be restored with
every launch of your application.
Make sure it's associated with some sort
of user action to go and initiate that.
and then process it like
a successful payment.
The transaction will have a property
that indicates that it's restored,
but the goal is that as a result of you
receiving this restored transaction,
you simply unlock the purchase again,
as if the user had bought
it for the first time.
The customer will not be charged.
Remember,
restoring is a process that they expect
on devices when it's non-consumable as
well as subscription-based products.
Talking about subscriptions,
as I mentioned in the beginning,
you're required to manage all
the information associated
with subscriptions.
So whether the subscription is
valid for a given period of time,
all those things that you need to track,
it's really in your best interest to
perhaps collect a user ID so that you
can restore the purchases for the user.
They will not come back as a result
of calling restored purchases.
Consumables as well as
subscription information is not
returned as part of restoration.
So that's it on the client
implementation side.
Let's take a look at what you can do on
your server in order to go the next step.
Now as I mentioned,
having a server is optional.
However,
there are a lot of use cases where
a server would be incredibly useful.
First and foremost,
you could serve product
IDs to your application.
Perhaps you have a content service
and you're dynamically creating
multiple product IDs over time.
Rather than delivering a new
version of your binary every time
to encompass those product IDs,
you can just serve them up over a server.
If you're serving content,
most likely you've got a server
already in order to provide
that content to your user.
It's sitting out there in the cloud.
When they make the purchase,
it's unlocked and they're able to
stream it down to their application.
Some folks are using a server
to manage user accounts as well.
Again, specifically for subscriptions,
that's something you
definitely want to do.
And then finally, as I mentioned,
you're going to use a server
in order to verify the in-app
purchases that a user has made.
So of all of these things that you
could possibly do with a server,
verifying in-app purchases is the one
where Apple's part of the process.
So let's take a look at that.
Verifying in-app purchase begins
with you sending the encoded
receipt up to your server.
Remember, it's a base64 encoded receipt.
And then you're going to create a
JSON object that has that receipt as
the value of a receipt data object.
Next up is you're going to post that
to the iTunes Verification Service at
buyitunes.apple.com/verifyreceipt.
That'll send that up to our server.
We'll take a look at the
package that you've sent us,
and then we're going to respond
with a JSON response that you
can inspect for validation.
Looking at the JSON object,
you'll see it's got a status value,
as well as some other
information in there.
Key for validating the
receipt is the status.
You want to make sure that that
value is zero for a verified receipt.
Any other value that you see here means
that this receipt has not been verified.
So after you've validated
the JSON response,
validated that you received
a verified receipt,
You're going to take a look at the rest
of the receipt for some other interesting
information that's part of it.
As part of the receipt
we provide product ID,
Apple bundle ID, purchase date,
all sorts of information that could
be incredibly useful if you've
got a system on your back end that
manages transaction information as
well as user information to manage
purchases and those types of things.
So take a look at these fields,
they're incredibly useful.
And then the final step is you're
going to pass the verification
status off to your application.
Basically tell your application
whether it can unlock the particular
feature that a user has just bought.
So, that's it with the server side.
You've verified your purchases.
And that's it from a preparation
and implementation perspective.
Program Portal, iTunes Connect, your app,
your app server, you got it all together.
So let's wrap it up with
some debugging techniques.
Well, those debugging techniques are
all those things that I called
out as part of the presentation
with the little stars next to it.
Each one of these issues have
caused some users grief as
part of their implementation.
So be mindful.
Make sure that you've got the
appropriate contract in place.
Make sure that you've got cleared
for sale checked in iTunes Connect.
That the appropriate
agreements are there.
That you don't change metadata
before you've actually
submitted your application.
You don't want to out your products,
the features that you're going
to have in your application,
before you actually submit it.
And then finally,
make sure that you're using the
appropriate in-app test user information
as part of your testing process.
So here's what we've covered:
a bit of overview, architecture,
some development and preparation steps,
as well as some implementation
details and debugging techniques.
I'm the iPhone and
Server Technologies Evangelist.
My email address is malone@apple.com.
If you have any further questions,
feel free to send me an email and be
sure to check out the documentation
available on the program portal
at developer.apple.com/iphone.
Thank you.